---
layout: page
status: publish
published: true
title: Support Code for America
author: Abhi Nemani
author_login: Abhi
author_email: abhi@codeforamerica.org
wordpress_id: 2990
wordpress_url: http://c4a.me/
date: 2011-01-18 04:15:22.000000000 +00:00
categories: []
tags: []
---
Code for America exists because people are excited about the potential for a new kind of public service -- one that allows us to dramatically improve how we all work together for our common interest. By leveraging the tools and technologies we use everyday to aid in the business of governing. With modern approaches and 21st century tools we can bring neighbors together to improve their communities, give students access to a city full of educational opportunities, and reduce the cost of delivering basic services.

This work is only possible because some <a title="Donors" href="http://www.codeforamerica.org/donors">amazing organizations and individuals</a> have sponsored our efforts with financial support and in-kind contributions. Hundreds of individuals have invested their time, energy, ideas, and money in our mission. From generous grants to free office space, support for our efforts has taken many forms and is fundamental to the work we do.
<p style="padding-left: 30px;"><strong>Program and general operating support. </strong>The staff and resources that make Code for America's programs possible are supported by foundation grants, individual major gifts, corporate sponsors, and grassroots contributions. Through the Fellowship, Brigade, Accelerator, and the CfA Commons we collaborate with local officials, community leaders, and residents across the country to build new tools for civic engagement and help government work better for everyone.</p>
<p style="padding-left: 30px;"><strong>In-kind contributions. </strong>Hardware, software and web services: we spend a lot of time on the computer and use a variety of tools that are necessary for us to fulfill our mission. Donations of laptops, mobile devices, cameras, design software, GIS software, cloud services, and web hosting services are always welcome. We also appreciate donated airline miles to allow the Fellows to spend more time in the cities.</p>
<p style="padding-left: 30px;"><strong>Code for America Summit. </strong>The Code for America Summit is a rare opportunity for more than 250 leaders and innovators in civic technology to come together in one room for a face-to-face conversation. In addition to showcasing critical achievements from the year, the Summit hosts conversations that determine the collective vision for this movement going forward. <a href="http://www.cfasummit.org/sponsor" target="_blank">Help convene the innovators.</a></p>
<p style="padding-left: 30px;"><strong>Salon Series. </strong>At Code for America, we’re inspired ideas: big ideas and small ideas that can have a big impact. We like to talk about them and we like to share them. About once a month, here in San Francisco's hub of innovation, we invite leaders in government, technology, public services, and entrepreneurship to come to our headquarters and talk with us and with anyone else who's interested in exploring new thoughts and forward-thinking concepts. We call this evening of conversation the CfA Salon. We are seeking partners to support one or more of these salon events.</p>
Please contact us if you are interested in supporting our work. Ashley Meyers, development and engagement manager, would be glad to discuss how you can align your contribution or sponsorship with a key need of our organization. She can be reached at 415/236-3796 or <a href="mailto:ashley@codeforamerica.org" target="_blank">ashley@codeforamerica.org</a>. You can also make a <a title="Contribute" href="https://secure.codeforamerica.org/page/contribute">financial contribution</a> online.
