---
layout: post
status: publish
published: true
title: 'Scott Silverman: Why I''m Coding for America'
author: Scott Silverman
author_login: scott
author_email: scott@codeforamerica.org
author_url: http://www.scottsil.com
wordpress_id: 2689
wordpress_url: http://50.16.221.90/cfa_wordpress/?p=2689
date: 2010-11-01 07:38:16.000000000 +00:00
categories:
- Dispatches
- '#codingforamerica'
tags: []
wordpress_html: true
wordpress_permalink: http://www.codeforamerica.org/2010/11/01/testing/
---

<p>I believe in meaningful work. Work that connects people in revolutionary ways. Work that has the potential to change the way we interface with the world. Work that makes my country–and my community–a better place for its citizens.</p>
<p>Given my professional strengths, I have struggled to find an opportunity that fulfills my desire for meaningful work. Most opportunities that fit my talents lie with companies aiming to satisfy the wants of their investors. I believe that too little energy is focused on improving the lives of people and too often are decisions made based on what will satisfy shareholders. It is with this in mind that I am eagerly Coding for America.</p>
<p>As a recent graduate with leadership, technology and media experience, I am ready to face the real world, take ownership over projects and innovate with the goal of redefining how government operates. In this respect, Code for America is an extremely attractive opportunity. The prospect of working with (and learning from) 19 other bright and motivated CfA fellows excites me. I have been searching for individuals like myself to collaborate and innovate on exciting new ideas. While I am eager to put my own skills and ideas to work, I recognize that I still have much to learn. For this reason, I see Code for America’s development and partnership aspects as instrumental in my personal development process. The ability to learn new techniques and skills from tech industry leaders and put them to work in real-world situations is rare.</p>
<p>I am eager to make waves in this exciting new frontier and bring the web revolution to American cities, where it can impact the lives of millions. This reason, above all else, fuels my desire to Code for America. It is the perfect hybrid between technology and public service. Code for America is the beginning of a new revolution, one that integrates the web with the core of our communities‚ and it is a privilege to be a 2011 Fellow. Now let’s get to work.</p>
